In this file, I will upload my research for the case study.

I was first introduced to what a hash is. A hash was described as essentially a digital fingerprint for any digital data. It is basically a very long number which is generated for any data by some hidden algorithm by a computer. Next, I was introduced to what a block is, and in turnn what a blockchain is. A blockchain is made up of a sequential collection of blocks, each with different data (block number, nonce, data) that it uses to compute a specific hash. The hash of each block is very important as it determines if a block will be considered valid in the blockchain based on the data it contains. In other words, a blockchain will have a preset rule for what is considered a valid hash of any blocks. This rule simply describes the nature of the hash that a block must have in order to be accepted by the blockchain system. For instance, Bitcoin blockchains accept hashes that are made up of 17 zeroes, and this rule is updated after every 2000 blocks or so. This raises the question of how a computer can identify which nonce generates the right hash, and this is referred to as 'mining'.

Mining refers to the use of computer algorithms to determine a nonce for a block in a blockchain which allows the block to obtain a valid hash (be validated in the blockchain). The specific algorithm used by the computer is very complicated and disallows for the obtaining of the nonce from any given hash. This makes this system quite immune to tampering. The miners have to deduce the right hash from a complicated computer encryption puzzle, and the first miner to verify a block is given a reward. This system is called proof-of-work, and it used to ensure that miners are always constantly looking to verify a transaction, keeping the system working. There are some problems associated with this system. Firstly, it requires a lot of electrical power to mine consistently, since the encryption puzzles that the computer has to solve require a lot of computing power. Also, the promise of a reward leads to the formation of mining farms or mining pools, which make use of multiple miners pooling their hashing power and splitting the reward evenly. This causes the blockchain system to become more centralized, as opposed to becoming more decentralized. It also increases the chance of tampering, especially when a mining pool becomes large enough to possess 51% of the hashing power, and this is explained in the paragraph below.

Most blockchain based-currencies have no real central authority or management overlooking the process of transaction. They work based on distributed blockchain systems, in which many people possess an individual copy of the blockchain and attempt to mine for the nonce of new blocks added to the blockchain. After they all obtain an answer, the system will poll their results and select the most occuring nonce (and hash) as the one to use in the official blockchain. This ensures that for tampering to occur, one has to purchase off at least 51% of the distributed blockchains, called a 51% attack, which is extremely hard to do since the blockchains are disributed to a large multitude of computers. This is why the use of mining pools could lead to a compromise of a blockchain system.

For blockchain currencies, the data inputted into each block represents a single particular transaction, which the miners try to verify. However, this system on its own cannot provide any security against the miner modifying the transaction details.

In order to overcome this downside, blockchain [currencies] also make use of a concept called signing, and this requires the use of a private key and a public key. The private key is a combination of characters generated by a particular user. Generally, the private key should be as long and as random as possible to prevent possible guessing. The public key is a unique identifier number which corresponds to a specific private key. These public keys are derived from a complicated encrypting algorithm, which disallows the reversal of the operation (i.e. to obtain the private key from a given public key). The public key is then published for all nodes (miners) in the blockchain network.
